Good afternoon.
I'd like to welcome you to session 814,
Kerberoos in Mac OS X.
My name's Tom Weier from
developer relations.
I've probably seen many of you in
a variety of sessions thus far.
I have the distinction of being
able to introduce a session that
in many ways has been a personal
crusade for quite some time.
And it's good to see that
with each passing year,
the adoption of Kerberoos
within Apple OS X,
it's been a personal crusade.
And in the shipping,
OS has improved year after year.
So with that,
I'd like to introduce John Hurley,
the security policy architect at Apple.
Thanks, Tom.
Okay, we have some great stuff
to talk about today.
As Tom said, we've really been making
some great progress.
So we're going to talk today
about what Kerberoos actually is,
the Kerberoos authentication system,
and a little bit about how it works.
Marshall is going to talk about some
of the libraries that are available
to developers and how you might go
about Kerberizing your application.
We're also going to tell you about
where it's used within the system.
We've added a lot of things to a lot
of system services that are Kerberized.
We'll tell you how you can put that into
your applications and make use of it.
So what is Kerbero?
Kerbero has been around for a while.
It's a great setup for authenticating
users to a server and to other servers.
One of the things that I wanted to
point out is the difference between
authentication and authorization.
Michael gave a session yesterday
about the authorization APIs,
and Kerbero is an authentication system.
So it's kind of proving who you are.
It's a way of identifying a user
to other services on the system.
It's not particularly granting
you rights to do things,
although you can get service tickets
that allow you to talk to servers,
and they will allow you to do things.
It assumes that you have
a trusted third party,
which is a server that knows
the passwords for your users,
and you can talk to that server,
and you have to assume
that that's trusted.
Okay, so Kerbero is really
pretty widely used now.
There are a lot of different areas
in technology that are using it.
It's used by government,
large corporations.
Very,
very widely used in higher education.
That's kind of where it got its start.
It's probably one of the biggest
areas where it's deployed.
Certainly in Windows,
it's all over the place.
The Passport service uses it.
It's in Windows 2000.
Kerberoos is really pretty ubiquitous.
Okay, so what are some of the
reasons for using Kerbero?
It does provide mutual
authentication of client and server.
So it's not, for example,
like SSL or how SSL is usually used,
which is just to authenticate the server.
In Kerbero, you know who your server is,
and then the servers
know who the clients are.
It does add the ability to do a
certain amount of single sign-on.
So you're providing,
the user is providing
their credentials once,
their password,
and then they can access other
system services without having to
provide these credentials again.
And that's really very nice for
the users because they're not
constantly entering their passwords.
And as we've Kerberized more
system services within Mac OS X,
that's made it easier for
people in a Kerbero environment.
So they log into the system,
and then they can access all
these different services.
It allows you to centralize your
authentication decisions so you have
one server set up that actually knows
who your users are and it protects
their passwords on that server so
they're not being sent over the network.
It is possible to extend it.
Okay, because the password itself
is never sent over the wire,
it's really a pretty good setup.
I mean,
that means that you're not going to
be able to do dictionary attacks.
It does assume that the server itself is
in a locked room somewhere because the
passwords are actually on the server.
So you want to protect that.
There are Kerbero implementations for
lots and lots of different platforms.
Mac OS X, Windows, Solaris,
pretty much everywhere.
As I mentioned before,
it has been around for quite a long time.
It's developed in the 80s.
I don't know if Tom was
looking at it back then,
but I know he's been thinking
about it for a long time.
and the source code
for this is available.
So Apple has been doing more
and more with Kerberoes.
And that's largely because
we know that it's very,
very important to our markets.
As we mentioned,
it's very common in higher education,
and that's a real key market for us.
At a developer conference two years ago,
we talked about the relationship
that we had with MIT,
which has been absolutely
great for Apple.
We've really seen lots
of progress on that,
and it's really been great being
able to put that in and see that
get leveraged throughout the system.
This is probably a good time to
sort of provide a round of applause
for Marshall and his team from MIT.
They've done a fantastic
job of getting that stuff.
Thank you.
They've had very interesting
times working with Apple,
but we've really been glad to
see this stuff moving forward.
One of the other things to
mention probably at this time,
too, is I think we are at the point now,
certainly one of the goals that we're
trying to achieve is we're trying to
make the Kerberoes that's installed in
Mac OS X to be usable out of the box.
So traditionally, Kerberoes has been,
because the source code's available,
particularly universities
will take it and customize it,
and it's very hard to move the standard
forward there because everyone's
afraid of breaking what's out there.
But we really think that the version
that we have that we're shipping
with Jaguar is the kind of release
where hopefully people can just set
their machines up with configuration
rather than having to do lots of
source changes or any source changes.
That's certainly our goal,
and we're hoping that Jaguar
will get us a long way there.
So there's certainly a lot
of users out there already.
It has shipped on OS X, 10.0,
and I think we'll see a lot more
users of it as we go forward.
So, talking about some of the components
that have been Kerberized in Jaguar.
And I think everything we're
talking about right now is
actually on the CD that you have.
The base for this is Kerbero
for Mac 4.5 from MIT.
So those are the libraries
that we're building on.
On the client side,
some of the things that
have been Kerberized,
AFP, some of the UNIX utilities,
the mail application has been
Kerberized so it can talk to the mail
server and use Kerbero authentication.
We've also put Kerbero
authentication into the login window.
We did a lot of changes
for Jaguar for login.
The login window calls the
authorization API and asks for the
right system.console or .login.console.
If it's configured properly,
you can configure it to use
Kerbero authentication to login.
That credential works.
The credentials you obtain then can be
used by the user throughout the session.
On the server side,
we've Kerberized the AFP server,
mail server, and FTP server.
There are other components
that are in the works.
If there are other system services
that you'd like to see Kerberized,
then please let Tom Weier
know about those.
Okay, so I'm going to ask Richard Murphy,
who's the manager of data security,
to come up and do a demo for us.
Thanks, Mark.
Hi there.
So, as John mentioned,
there were a lot of people that
actually were working on this.
Originally,
we were given the task of kind of
coordinating the Kerberoos project,
both John and I.
There were a lot of
people involved with that.
There was Marshall and
his team out at MIT.
The BSD team hired a person
specifically to do that.
We got him out here,
told him all about California,
and the first thing we did was we
took Nikolai and we shipped him
out to Massachusetts for a winter.
Great way to just win him over.
Nikolai did a lot of
great work out there,
helped coordinate getting builds in to
the campus and work with their team.
The MIT team was great working with him
in coordinating getting builds through
our builds process in a remote situation.
We also had the login window
work done by the security team.
Conrad Sauerwald and Gary Hu.
And then there's the AFP team.
Leland Wallace working on being able to
get the Apple share AFP mounts going.
So my key role in this was going to
meetings week after week and going,
"Is it done yet?"
They knew me rather well.
Are we done yet?
When is this going to be done?
So this last week,
everything kind of fell together.
Made my whole day.
So here we go.
We have the login panel.
What I'm going to do here is I'm going
to log into the local machine here,
and I'm going to get a Kerberoes ticket.
Nothing up my sleeves.
And we've logged in.
So what does this tell us?
I'm going to bring up the Kerbero app.
And you'll notice we have a
ticket granting ticket here.
Okay, good.
Okay, next thing, mail.
I have lots of mail.
We set up this demo so I would.
We won't read any of it right now.
And back to the Kerberoes app.
Here we are, a second line.
We've got the Kerberoes ticket
that actually authenticated
me to the IMAP server.
Okay, okay, you like that?
Okay, cool.
Here comes the tricky part.
So I'm going to connect to a server
and we choose really wonderful
names for servers around here.
We have an AFP-mounted home
directory and yet another ticket.
There you go, guys.
It's there.
It's working.
So the challenge is left to you guys.
When is it going to be done?
Okay.
Use this stuff.
It's cool stuff.
Take care.
I'll just go ahead.
Here's Marshall.
Hi, all.
I'm Marshall Vale from MIT.
I'm the project manager for
Macintosh and Kerbero's development.
Thanks to the nice demo Murph showed you,
you've seen Kerberoos in action.
Let's take a look about what's
going on under the hood.
Kerbero out there deployed in sites
is made up of two protocol versions,
Kerbero version 4 and version 5.
You may wonder what happened
to versions 1 and 2 and 3.
They did in fact exist,
but never got out of the lab.
Kerbero version 4 is the original
version of the Kerbero protocol.
It's still widely used
in many higher ed sites.
They've been using Kerbero
for probably over a decade.
If you're writing a new app,
we don't suggest that
you support Kerbero v4,
but only if you find that your
key markets really need it.
The current version of the
protocol is Kerbero version 5.
It's designed to fix many of the
security deficiencies of version 4.
Version 5 is what Microsoft adopted
for their version of Kerbero
in Windows 2000 and XP.
It's the suggested version of Kerbero
you should use in your protocols.
Now we'll probably toss around,
we've already tossed around,
a few acronyms for you.
So let's take a review of what they are.
First is a Kerberos Realm,
which defines the administrative
unit that is protected by a KDC,
or Key Distribution Center.
The tickets are the little
magic beasts that go around.
They're the authentication tokens that
authenticate you to various services.
For types of tickets,
we have two primary types of tickets.
A ticket-granting ticket,
also called an initial ticket.
It's used to seamlessly
get service tickets.
Now the service tickets are used to
authenticate you to a particular service,
such as FTP, email, printing, whatnot.
The ticket training ticket, or TGT,
is also called the initial
ticket because it's usually the
first ticket that a user gets.
It proves that the client is allowed
to get tickets for the other services.
It acts as a substitute for a password
in the sense that the TGT is presented
around and allowing the user to get
the access to the other services
without having to provide a separate
password to the Apple share server
or the FTP server or the email server.
It's also the mechanism by which
single sign-on is achieved due to the
seamless acquisition of service tickets.
All Kerbero tickets, including a TTT,
are only valid for a
limited period of time.
They expire.
A typical deployment usually does them in
a work period such as eight to ten hours,
although they can be shorter in some
stronger security sites or longer if you
really like to work longer than that.
So let's see how we get a TGT.
First,
the client will ask a KDC for a TGT.
Next, the KDC returns the TGT and
a session key to the client
encrypted in the client's key.
The client then uses the client's key,
which is the one-way hash of the
password the user just entered,
to extract the TGT.
You can see that there,
at no point did the password actually
go over the wire in any encrypted form.
And that's what brings a real
inherent level of security to
the typical Kerberoos exchange.
Now the service tickets are the
type of tickets used by a client
to access a particular service,
an FTP mail, as I mentioned before.
It contains a session key,
which is shared between
the client and the server,
and can be used to subsequently
encrypt the data exchanges to
make them a little more secure
and not just for authentication.
Like a TGT,
a service ticket also expires.
So I'll see how we get a service ticket.
First, the client presents a TGT to the
KDC with a request for a service ticket.
The KDC returns the encrypted
service ticket to the client.
and then the client uses the
TTT to extract the service ticket.
From here, the client can authenticate to
the server in one of two ways.
First ways with one-way authentication.
Here the client presents the
service ticket to the server.
The server receives the service
ticket and authenticates the client.
The server can use the session
key to encrypt subsequent traffic.
This is used in a variety of
some of the older protocols that
aren't considered as wonderful,
such as K-pop.
A better way of doing service
authentication is mutual authentication.
Here the client sends a service ticket
containing the session key to the server.
The server returns a response encrypted
with the session key from the service,
from the service to get,
authenticating the server to the client.
and like with one-way authentication,
the server may use the session
key to encrypt subsequent data.
So now we've seen how the
protocol works in BASIS,
let's take a look at the implementation.
Earlier this year,
MIT released Kerberoes for Macintosh 4.0.
We've been working on this
for about a year and a half,
and we were very happy to finish it.
And over a year and a half,
we supported three versions of Mac OS X,
all different.
A pre-release version of KFM 4.0
was included in Mac OS X.
That was the very first step of our
wonderful collaboration with Apple.
The version number of the package,
Kerberoos for Macintosh,
may be a little confusion,
but it does in fact include
both Kerberoos version 4
and version 5 libraries.
These libraries are available to a
variety of application environments,
including Carbon, Cocoa,
and BSD command line apps.
Also in KFM 4.0,
we introduced live ticket sharing
between Mac OS X and classic Mac OS 9,
which was a real boon to sites as
they needed to migrate their customers
and they had both classic and native
applications running at the same time.
This way, users on classic didn't need
to enter a password again.
The tickets were automatically sent
over to classic and were kept in
sync between the two environments.
As was alluded in the keynote,
we're all moving on to Mac OS X,
so Kerberoos for Macintosh 4.0
and 4.0 derivatives will be the
last release for classic Mac OS,
Mac OS 8 and 9.
As John mentioned earlier,
our new version included with Jaguar
is Kerberoes for Macintosh 4.5.
A big change from previous releases
is that the only way you'll be able
to get this version is in the box.
It will provide only as part of Jaguar.
New features that we've added to
Kerberoos for Mac OS 4.5 are improved
loading times and reduced memory storage.
We are able to be prebounded
to the system and applications
can pre-bind to us.
We also have a first version of
a supportable Kerberoos v5 API,
and I will touch on that later.
We also have added 5-to-4 support.
5-to-4 is an interesting
technology allowing you to
generate version 4 credentials
in a version 5 only environment.
This is predominantly in use in
sites that use the Andrew file system
implementation such as OpenAFS or Arla,
which use version 4 for their
inherent authentication.
We've also introduced a new command
line application called kswitch,
which sets the default user.
First seen on Mac OS X.
There will be no release of Kerberoes
for Macintosh 4.5 for Mac OS 9 or 8.
But don't worry,
Classic Ticket Sharing will still work
with KFM 4.0 working under Classic.
The Kerberoos for Macintosh 4.5
architecture is a bit different
than on other UNIXs or on Windows.
It's good if you write applications
in different layers to take
a look at how it all works.
The top layer, we support the variety of
application environments.
Natively,
we support the Mac OS application
space of Carbon,
Cocoa, and BSD apps.
We provide shim libraries.
They are not going to
be provided by Apple.
MIT is traditionally
distributed them directly from MIT,
but that allows us to support
CFM Carbon applications.
The core library in the system is
the Kerberoos framework comprised
of a multitude of libraries.
There used to be all individual
and a big change in Jaguars,
and they've now all been combined
down to one single library.
Underneath that,
the credential cache server
stores all the tickets in memory.
That's a big difference from
most other UNIXs where the
tickets are stored on disk.
Even on UNIXs that store in memory,
we use the credential cache API suite,
which is shared between Windows.
This API is also available
on Windows and Mac OS 9,
although Mac OS X has
got the latest version.
We use Mach IPC to communicate
between the framework and the server.
We also have the Kerberoos login server,
which presents the UI that allows
the user to enter a username,
change the realm, and enter the password.
The Kerbero version 4
libraries include Kclient 3.1.
Kclient is an API for Kerbero 4 that
was invented at Cornell and became
the dominant version on the Macintosh.
This provides compatibility
libraries for old Kclient 1.0 APIs,
including also new version 3 APIs,
which I know some applications
have started to support.
Underneath KClient,
we have the Cygnus Kerbero
version 4 implementation.
It's the last release from Cygnus
and includes a variety of changes to
support the Kerbero login library.
Applications can use
either API for v4 support.
We strongly encourage you to use the
KClient API because it is an API.
The historic v4 libraries can
be best described as a random
collection of functions.
Only use them if you happen to be porting
code that hasn't been changed in years.
If you find that you have to write
to support v4 for your customer base,
we highly encourage you
to use the KClient APIs.
The Kerberos 5 implementation
in KFM 4.5 is based on
MIT Kerberos v5 version 1.2.5,
which just was released
a couple of weeks ago.
Its primary feature for Jaguar
is our first crack at a new
cross-platform API suite.
Kerberos v5 has not exactly
had the best designed and
cross-platform API in the world.
It puts a lot of effort to try to
make sure that we have a list of
APIs that we can support going forward.
Right now that is in the
Jaguar builds and we've also,
on Kerberos for Windows,
are using that subset.
On UNIX we have declarations in the
headers for deprecated and private,
although due to a lot of the legacy
apps we still have to export them.
But we are moving forward
with this basis of APIs.
If you find that we have
removed APIs that you may
have relied on in the past,
we'd like to hear what functionality
you do need so we can design
APIs that are supportable.
Also in the suite is the GSS API,
the generic security service API.
That is the recommended layer that
you should actually be talking to,
rather than the v5 API,
to access Kerberoos 5.
That actually has an
RFC with a standard API,
whether you like it or not.
At least standard.
The general recommendation is when
you want to support Kerberoos v5,
you use GSS as the API to access it.
[Transcript missing]
So getting back to how
the implementation works,
the credential cache in the
libraries is the bottom layer
where the tickets were stored.
It's stored in memory as opposed to
on disk and many other platforms.
This allows us to handle multiple
credential environments a lot easier.
This is true of many sites out
there who have KDCs not one per
environment but one per many small
units such as various colleges at a
university may have their own KDCs.
And a student has classes in both
environments and they need to
authenticate to both to do their work.
It also provides an API for accessing
the core v4 and v5 credentials.
So if you happen to be writing a tool
like the Kerbero app that needs direct
manipulation of the credentials,
you would write to the
credential cache API.
The Kerbero's login library is a very
powerful and special library in Mac OS X.
It simplifies the process
of acquiring TGTs,
allows you to destroy all the tickets
and acquire tickets with a single call,
and most importantly,
it transparently handles
acquisition of v4 and v5 tickets
no matter what the site has.
It determines based on the configuration
file whether the site supports v4 or
v5 or both and handles acquiring them
seamlessly for you so you don't have
to worry about what the site uses.
It has also an API for adjusting
the login library dialogue options.
Applications used in this tend to be
things like KNIT or a login window or,
for example, a screensaver.
That's not an announcement.
Other libraries in the
implementation include ComAir,
which is how you access error
codes in the Kerberos environment,
and the Profile Library.
This is the API which you use
to read information contained in
the Kerberos configuration file,
such as library defaults
and Realm information.
The Kervos application is
a special tool for UI for
obtaining and destroying listing,
displaying information about the tickets.
It's good for debugging.
It allows the user to see how long
their tickets are going to last for.
The application changes
when it's in the dock.
It provides a dock menu.
Also allows settings for
defaults in the login library.
You may notice on your Jaguar
CDs that it is not included.
If you would like to see
this included in Jaguar,
we recommend you send a gentle and
calm email to Apple suggesting that
or give it to various feedback forms.
So now we've seen a bit
about how Kerberos works.
How do we Kerberize an application?
It's awfully simple.
Find the protocol specification.
RFCs are the best place to look.
There are also a few protocols
that are de facto standards.
Determine which API you're going to use.
This may be determined by your market,
whether you want to support v4 or v5,
or it's determined in the spec,
including K-client or GSS.
You need to figure out how to connect
the Kerbero APIs to the protocol.
This usually means that the data returned
by the Kerbero APIs need to be massaged
into a form for the internet protocol.
So let's take a look at FTP.
It's one of the nicest to look
at because it has good standard
RFCs for both v4 and v5.
The standard for supporting with v5
is though via GSS and on Mac OS X and
Mac OS we suggest using KClient
for your v4 support as KClient
over the base v4 APIs has better
support for multiple sessions.
To support v4, you follow a generic
process for Kerberoos.
First,
you want to set up a new client session.
Then you want to do
authenticate for the service.
You do that with Kclient
getAuthenticatorForService.
Then you want to, for mutual auth,
you call Kclient verify protected service
reply to check the reply from the server.
FTP, Kerberos FTP,
supports encryption of the data stream.
User can actually toggle
it on and off on the fly.
This we use Kclient encrypt and Kclient
And then the way, in this example,
we're connecting the API to the
protocol is through base64 encoding.
That's a very common way of connecting
Kerberoos to base internet protocols.
GSS API, we had to call,
you can see different folks
designed the different APIs.
We call GSS init set context to do
the session management authentication.
Encryption and decryption is
through GSS wrap and GSS unwrap.
Just like with v4,
connecting the API to the protocol
is through base64 encoding.
So, how do you get started
Kerberizing your apps?
Well, start with Kerberos for Macintosh
4.5 provided in your Jaguar CDs.
It's a development version,
but it's very good and stable.
Use the online resources,
web documentation,
extensively on the mailing lists also.
You'll get a lot of help.
And there's even a news group out there,
too.
Reporting bugs.
Some subtle differences here.
If you have bugs about KFM 4.0,
send it to MIT.
Address is listed there.
curb5-bugs@mit.edu.
However,
if you have bugs you want to report
against the Kerberoes in Jaguar,
please report them to Apple.
Many of the mailing lists
involving Kerberoes out there
tend to be open in public.
You're not supposed to be
commenting about Jaguar until it's
released in the open in public.
Please report them to Apple.
That also helps Apple prioritize
what things we need to fix and what
things we need to roll out to you.
So for more information, a list of URLs.
The predominant place you might want
to get on if you would like help in
Kerbero is the Kerbdev mailing list.
They're listed at the bottom.
Send mail to kerbdev-request.
Unlike last year,
we finally automated this so
it's not just a human reading it.
If you want to contact the
development team privately,
if you're considering Kerberizing your
application and you don't want messages
going out to everyone and their friends,
you can contact the Mac Dev team
directly at macdev@mit.edu.
Good place for hunting down internet
RFCs to find out what already has
a Kerberized protocol standard.
This is there at the IETF.
and Microsoft.
There's the URL for Microsoft document
describing GSS with SSPI.
All of these URLs will be
published by Apple someplace,
I believe, on the web.
And Comp's protocols Kerbero is also
gateway with Kerbero@mit.edu and actually
really doesn't have anything talking
about the protocol much these days.
Mostly application usage
and programming issues.
But if you prefer using a news
reader instead of an email client,
you can still hang out
If you have any questions concerning
Apple's use of Kerbero in Mac OS X,
you can contact Tom Weier.
If you have questions pertaining
to the Kerbero itself in Jaguar,
you can contact myself or Mac Dev.
And if you have any questions
about security other than Kerbero,
you can contact Craig Keithley.